Forward Deployed Engineer 
Take-Home Test

Agent-Based Solution Implementation in Opal
Objective: Design and build a functional agent-based solution within a provided Opal instance, leveraging Opal's capabilities (Instructions, Specialized Agents, Agent Workflows, and Tools) to address a real-world problem.
Scenario: As a Forward Deployed Engineer, you are often tasked with identifying inefficiencies in client workflows and proposing innovative technical solutions. Many marketing teams (Optimizely’s core customers) face challenges related to content creation, campaign management, data analysis, or cross-platform integration.
Your goal is to demonstrate your ability to understand a problem, break it down, and implement an intelligent, automated solution using the Opal platform.

Accessing Opal:
You will be provided with access to an Opal instance for this test. 
•	You will receive an invitation to join an Optimizely Onboarding Organization via email
•	Accept the invitation.
•	You will receive a second email welcoming you to Opti ID and inviting you to activate your account.
•	Setup your password.
•	You will then be able to click on Opal to access the Opal instance.

Your Task:
1.	Identify a Problem: Choose a specific, real-world problem that a marketing team commonly faces or any other problem of your choosing. This problem needs to be suitable for an agent-based solution.
2.	Build an Opal Agent Solution: Within the provided Opal instance (see details in Appendix), implement a detailed solution for your identified problem. Your solution must incorporate the following elements:
a.	Instructions:
i.	Define any relevant additional context required to address your use case
ii.	Configure the natural language instructions that would trigger the use of this instruction
b.	Specialized Agent(s):
i.	Identify and create 2 or more specific, sub-task within your overall solution that can be solved with a "Specialized Agent."
ii.	Implement the Specialized Agent(s) within Opal.
iii.	Clearly define its specific purpose/function, the input parameters it requires, and the output it produces.
c.	Opal Tool Integration:
i.	Utilize existing Opal tools within your agent(s) and workflow(s)
(e.g., search_web, browse_web, send_email, create_canvas, write_content_to_file, generate_or_edit_image, etc.) and/or Custom tools (see below) to achieve the desired outcome.
d.	Agent Workflow(s):
i.	Implement an "Agent Workflow" that orchestrates multiple steps or interactions between your Specialized Agents and/or other available Opal agents.
e.	Custom Opal Tool (Optional but encouraged)
Objective: Design and implement a custom Opal tool that enhances or supports the agent solution you are building for your chosen problem.
i.	Identify a Need: Within your primary agent solution, identify a specific function or capability that is not adequately covered by existing Opal tools, and where a custom tool would significantly improve the solution's effectiveness or efficiency.
(Note: In case no custom tool is required, you can build a tool that addresses a separate scenario)
1.	Examples: A tool to interact with a specific external API (e.g., a custom CRM, a niche analytics platform), a specialized data transformation function, or a unique content formatting utility.
ii.	Design the Custom Tool:
1.	Define the tool's purpose, its input parameters (with types and descriptions), and its expected output.
2.	Consider how this tool will integrate seamlessly into your existing agent workflow.
iii.	Implement the Custom Tool:
1.	Build the custom tool and run it locally or online (see Appendix on using ngrok or Vercel).
2.	Integrate this custom tool into your agent's workflow, demonstrating how your agent calls it and utilizes its output.


Helpful Opal Documentation & Resources:
To assist you in building your solution, please refer to the following Optimizely documentation:
•	Opal AI Assistant Overview: Optimizely AI overview
•	Opal agent Overview: Agent Overview
•	Creating Instructions (Main Agents): Creating an AI Assistant
•	Developing Specialized Agents: Specialized Agents
•	Building Agent Workflows: Agent Workflows
•	Opal Tools: Tools Overview

Deliverables:
1.	Opal Agent – In instance:
a.	Provide the exact name in the provided instance of your 
i.	Instruction(s)
ii.	Specialized Agent(s)
iii.	Workflow(s)
b.	Export your implemented Main Agent, Specialized Agent(s), and Agent Workflow(s) from the provided Opal instance. 
i.	Instruction(s) - Copy the instruction (text) to a text/doc/pdf file
ii.	Specialized Agent(s) - Click the ellipsis (...) and export as JSON 
iii.	Workflow(s) - Click the ellipsis (...) and export as JSON
c.	Technical challenge (optional) - Share alink to a github repo with your tool source code.
2.	Brief Write-Up (Doc or PDF file - max 2 pages):
a.	Problem Identification:
i.	Clearly state the specific problem you are addressing.
ii.	Explain why this problem is significant for a marketing team (or your chosen domain).
b.	Solution Overview:
i.	Provide a high-level summary of how your implemented agent-based solution solves the identified problem.
c.	Key Design Decisions & Implementation Notes:
i.	Briefly describe your main agent's instructions and how a user would interact with it.
ii.	Explain the role of your Specialized Agent(s) and how they are integrated into the workflow.
iii.	Outline the steps of your Agent Workflow and which Opal tools are used at each stage.
iv.	Highlight any specific challenges you encountered during implementation and how you overcame them.
d.	Self-Reflection:
i.	How could this solution be extended or improved in the future?
ii.	What did you learn about Opal's capabilities during this exercise?

Submission Guidelines:
•	Please submit your Opal agent export(s) and the brief write-up within 7 days of receiving this test.
•	Name your write-up file: [YourName]_OpalAgentSolution.
•	If you have any clarifying questions, please do not hesitate to ask.

Evaluation Criteria:
Your submission will be evaluated based on:
•	Clarity of Problem Identification: How well you define the problem.
•	Functionality & Completeness: How well your implemented Opal solution addresses the problem and whether all required components (Main Agent, Specialized Agent(s), Workflow(s), Tool Integration) are present and functional.
•	Logical Cohesion: How well the different components of your solution fit together and demonstrate a clear understanding of agent orchestration.
•	Practicality & Efficiency: The real-world applicability and efficiency of your implemented solution including prompting quality.
•	Understanding of Opal Concepts: Demonstrated grasp of how instructions, specialized agents, workflows, and tools are configured and interact within the Opal platform.
•	Communication: The clarity, organization, and professionalism of your write-up.





 
Appendix – Technical Challenge 
This section outlines how to set up and host your custom Opal Tool, covering both local development for rapid iteration and deployment for production or demo environments. These are provided as guidance

Local Development & Testing with ngrok
Purpose: To expose your local server for testing your custom Opal Tool with the Opal instance. This allows for rapid iteration and debugging during development.
Steps:
1.	Setup ngrok:
a.	Install ngrok: Download and install ngrok from https://ngrok.com/download.
b.	Create ngrok account and authenticate:ngrok config add-authtoken YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN
c.	Start ngrok tunnel: In a separate terminal, expose your local server (default port is 8000):ngrok http 8000
d.	Use the ngrok URL: Copy the https:// forwarding URL from ngrok output (e.g., https://abc123.ngrok.io). This is the URL you will use to register your tool with Opal.
2.	Registering Your Tool with Opal:
a.	Once your application is running locally and exposed via ngrok:
i.	Navigate to Opal Tools Registry: Go to Optimizely Opal, then navigate to the Tools Registry page.
ii.	Click "Add Tool Registry."
iii.	Configure Tool Registry:
1.	Registry URL: Enter your ngrok HTTPS URL followed by /discovery (e.g., <your-ngrok-https-url>/discovery).
2.	Name: Give your tool registry a descriptive name (e.g., "Custom Tool - Local Dev").
3.	Description: (Optional) Provide a brief description of your tools.
4.	Authentication: Configure if your tools require specific authentication (e.g., OptiID).
iv.	Save and Verify: Click "Save" to register your tools. Opal will attempt to discover tools from your endpoint. Verify that your custom tools appear in the registry.
3.	Testing Your Registered Tool:
a.	Verify Tool Discovery: Ensure your tools are listed correctly in the Opal Tools Registry.
b.	Invoke and Test: Navigate to Opal Chat or Workflows and invoke your tool (e.g., by typing a command that triggers its functionality). Verify that results are returned correctly.

Production / Demo Hosting with Vercel
Purpose: To deploy your custom Opal Tool for production or demo environments, leveraging Vercel's serverless capabilities for scalability, ease of deployment, and automatic SSL.
Steps:
1.	Prepare Your Tool's Codebase:
a.	Structure for Serverless Functions: Vercel automatically detects serverless functions in an api directory at the root of your project.
i.	Node.js Example: api/tools/my-custom-tool.js and api/discovery.js. Each .js file in api will become a serverless function.
ii.	Python Example: api/tools/my-custom-tool.py and api/discovery.py.
b.	Implement Discovery Endpoint: Ensure your tool's discovery endpoint (/discovery) is correctly implemented as a serverless function that returns the metadata for all your tools.
c.	Implement Tool Endpoints: Each tool endpoint (e.g., /tools/my-custom-tool) should be a separate serverless function that handles the logic for that specific tool.
d.	Manage Dependencies: Include a package.json (for Node.js) or requirements.txt (for Python) in your project root, listing all necessary dependencies. Vercel will install these automatically during deployment.
2.	Setup & Deploy to Vercel:
a.	Create a Vercel Account: Sign up for a free Vercel account if you don't have one.
b.	Install Vercel CLI (Optional but Recommended): npm install -g vercel (Node.js) or pip install vercel (Python).
c.	Link to Git Repository: Push your tool's code to a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket). Vercel integrates seamlessly with these providers.
d.	Deploy your project:
i.	Via Git Integration (Recommended): Go to your Vercel dashboard, click "New Project," and select your Git repository. Vercel will automatically detect your project's framework and deploy it, assigning a unique URL (e.g., your-project-name.vercel.app).
ii.	Via Vercel CLI: Navigate to your project directory in your terminal and run vercel. Follow the prompts to link your project and deploy.
3.	Configure Environment Variables (if applicable):
a.	If your custom tool requires API keys, database credentials, or other sensitive information, store them as environment variables in Vercel. In your Vercel project settings, go to "Environment Variables" and add them. These will be securely injected into your serverless functions at runtime.
4.	Registering Your Tool with Opal:
a.	Once your tool is deployed on Vercel and you have its public URL (e.g., https://your-tool-name.vercel.app):
i.	Navigate to Opal Tools Registry: Go to Optimizely Opal, then navigate to the Tools Registry page.
ii.	Click "Add Tool Registry."
iii.	Configure Tool Registry:
1.	Registry URL: Enter your Vercel deployment URL followed by /discovery (e.g., https://your-tool-name.vercel.app/discovery).
2.	Name: Give your tool registry a descriptive name (e.g., "Custom Tool - Production").
3.	Authentication: Configure if your tools require specific authentication (e.g., OptiID).
iv.	Save and Verify: Click "Save" to register your tools. Opal will attempt to discover your tools from the Vercel-hosted /discovery endpoint.


API Endpoints
This project uses @optimizely-opal/opal-tools-sdk to automatically generate endpoints for each tool/function and a discovery endpoint.
Discovery Endpoint
•	/discovery
Returns metadata about all available tools/functions, including their names, descriptions, parameters, endpoints, HTTP methods, and authentication requirements.
Example response:
{
  "functions": [
    {
      "name": "get_cmp_root_folders",
      "description": "Fetches root-level folders from CMP library",
      "parameters": [],
      "endpoint": "/tools/get-cmp-root-folders",
      "http_method": "POST",
      "auth_requirements": [
        {
          "provider": "OptiID",
          "scope_bundle": "default",
          "required": true
        }
      ]
    }
    // ...other functions
  ]
}
Tool Endpoints
Each tool/function is exposed as a separate HTTP endpoint under /tools/{tool-name}.
For example:
•	POST /tools/get-cmp-root-folders

